README.md, before:

# Methods of Advanced Data Engineering Template Project

This template project provides some structure for your open data project in the MADE module at FAU.
This repository contains (a) a data science project that is developed by the student over the course of the semester, and (b) the exercises that are submitted over the course of the semester.
Before you begin, make sure you have [Python](https://www.python.org/) and [Jayvee](https://github.com/jvalue/jayvee) installed. We will work with [Jupyter notebooks](https://jupyter.org/). The easiest way to do so is to set up [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) with the [Jupyter extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-toolsai.jupyter).


## Project Work
Your data engineering project will run alongside lectures during the semester. We will ask you to regularly submit project work as milestones so you can reasonably pace your work. All project work submissions **must** be placed in the `project` folder.

### Exporting a Jupyter Notebook
Jupyter Notebooks can be exported using `nbconvert` (`pip install nbconvert`). For example, to export the example notebook to html: `jupyter nbconvert --to html examples/final-report-example.ipynb --embed-images --output final-report.html`


## Exercises
During the semester you will need to complete exercises, sometimes using [Python](https://www.python.org/), sometimes using [Jayvee](https://github.com/jvalue/jayvee). You **must** place your submission in the `exercises` folder in your repository and name them according to their number from one to five: `exercise<number from 1-5>.<jv or py>`.

In regular intervalls, exercises will be given as homework to complete during the semester. We will divide you into two groups, one completing an exercise in Jayvee, the other in Python, switching each exercise. Details and deadlines will be discussed in the lecture, also see the [course schedule](https://made.uni1.de/). At the end of the semester, you will therefore have the following files in your repository:

1. `./exercises/exercise1.jv` or `./exercises/exercise1.py`
2. `./exercises/exercise2.jv` or `./exercises/exercise2.py`
3. `./exercises/exercise3.jv` or `./exercises/exercise3.py`
4. `./exercises/exercise4.jv` or `./exercises/exercise4.py`
5. `./exercises/exercise5.jv` or `./exercises/exercise5.py`

### Exercise Feedback
We provide automated exercise feedback using a GitHub action (that is defined in `.github/workflows/exercise-feedback.yml`). 

To view your exercise feedback, navigate to Actions -> Exercise Feedback in your repository.

The exercise feedback is executed whenever you make a change in files in the `exercise` folder and push your local changes to the repository on GitHub. To see the feedback, open the latest GitHub Action run, open the `exercise-feedback` job and `Exercise Feedback` step. You should see command line output that contains output like this:

```sh
Found exercises/exercise1.jv, executing model...
Found output file airports.sqlite, grading...
Grading Exercise 1
	Overall points 17 of 17
	---
	By category:
		Shape: 4 of 4
		Types: 13 of 13
```

Commit message:

minor changes to report.ipynb; README.md

README.md, after:

# MADE: BRFC - Behavior risk factors & cancer project

## MADE - Methods of Advanced Data Engineering
This repository contains exercises and a project developed during the course **Methods of Advanced Data Engineering** in winter semester 2023/2024 of the Master Programme AI at FAU (Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen-Nürnberg).

## Project: BRFC - Behavior risk factors & cancer project
The BRFC - Behavior risk factors & cancer project relates data of a nation wide study in the United States  
**BRFSS Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System**  
and cancer data of the   
**GDC - Genomic Data Commons**  
which is a research program of the National Cancer Institute (NCI) in the United States.

The hypotheses for this project are:  
(1) Behavioural risk factors are influencing the chance to develop cancer.  
(2) Behavioural risk factors are influencing the chance of mutation(s) in genes which are related to obesity.

The report supports both hypotheses. A classification is done on the final report to classify whether there are certain mutations in genes related to obesity combining both data sources.

For more information, see the [final report](project/report.ipynb)

## Exercises
Exercises were submitted during the couse and stored within the *exercise* folder.
These exercises were implemented in python or jayvee as an introduction to the project development.

## Environments
In order to choose the correct environment for either the exercises or the project, two files are located in the repositories root:  
- [made_exercise_environment.yml](made_exercise_environment.yml): to setup the environment for the exercies  
- [made_project_environment.yml](made_project_environment.yml): to setup the environment for the project  

These files can be used to automatically instantiate an environment with [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/).

As a suggestion, the environment can be setup with [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) which neatly integrates [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/), [Jayvee](https://github.com/jvalue/jayvee) and [Jupyter notebooks](https://jupyter.org/) with the [Jupyter extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-toolsai.jupyter).

Furthermore, the package for building and running [Jayvee](https://github.com/jvalue/jayvee) is installed via [NodeJs](https://nodejs.org/) (see [package.json](package.json)).
You can run the BRFSS data pipeline by 
```bash
npm install
"../node_modules/.bin/jv" data/brfss.jv
```
This way you do not have to install any tool manually and everything can be automated.
