project/project-plan.md, before:

# Project Plan

## Title
<!-- Give your project a short title. -->
BRFC - Behavior risk factors & cancer project.

## Main Question

<!-- Think about one main question you want to answer based on the data. -->
How do behavioral risks influence cancer (or even mutations). 

## Description

<!-- Describe your data science project in max. 200 words. Consider writing about why and how you attempt it. -->
Cancer is one of the leading number of deaths, bronchus and lung cancer deaths are now ranked 6th among the leading causes of deaths (https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/the-top-10-causes-of-death). Also obesity is a world wide health issue and influences diseases. Rising numbers in cancer and obesity are alerting and therefore it is of high interest to reveal any relations of obesity/behavioral risk factors and cancer in order to apply countermeasures.

This project aims to uncover relations of behavioral risk factors and cancer.

## Datasources

<!-- Describe each datasources you plan to use in a section. Use the prefic "DatasourceX" where X is the id of the datasource. -->

### Datasource1 GDC - NCI Genomic Data Commons
License: Data usage agreement: https://gdc.cancer.gov/about-data/data-analysis-policies

Several apis/ways to retrieve data from GDS: https://docs.gdc.cancer.gov/Data/Data_Model/GDC_Data_Model/#data-users
Data Model: https://gdc.cancer.gov/developers/gdc-data-model

#### Datasource1a GraphQL API: GDC - NCI Genomic Data Commons
Cancer and genomic data GraphQL API
* Metadata URL: https://docs.gdc.cancer.gov/API/Users_Guide/GraphQL_Examples/
* Data URL: https://api.gdc.cancer.gov/v0/graphql
* Query: ToBeSpecified with project
* Data Type: json

#### Datasource1b REST API: GDC - NCI Genomic Data Commons
Cancer and genomic data direct download
* Metadata URL: https://docs.gdc.cancer.gov/API/Users_Guide
* Data URL: https://portal.gdc.cancer.gov/exploration?filters=%7B%22op%22%3A%22and%22%2C%22content%22%3A%5B%7B%22op%22%3A%22in%22%2C%22content%22%3A%7B%22field%22%3A%22cases.primary_site%22%2C%22value%22%3A%5B%22bronchus%20and%20lung%22%5D%7D%7D%5D%7D
* Data Type: json

### Datasource2 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance
License: https://opendefinition.org/licenses/odc-odbl/
#### Datasource2: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance
Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity - Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System
* Metadata URL: https://catalog.data.gov/harvest/object/721fe106-9250-45d7-9093-1edacb565cd4
* Data URL: https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/nutrition-physical-activity-and-obesity-behavioral-risk-factor-surveillance-system
* Data Type: json/xml/rdf/csv


## Work Packages

<!-- List of work packages ordered sequentially, each pointing to an issue with more details. -->

### Milestone 1: Data inspection, Goal: Data available, conclusion if data is sufficient, side effects of data
1. Download data packages [#1][i1]
2. Inspect data packages [#2][i2]
3. Elaborate on side effects of data [#3][i3]

### Milestone 2: Work on question 1 'Correlation of behavioral risk factors and cancer (primary site 'bronchus and lung')'
1. Data preprocessing [#4][i4]
2. Data evaluation [#5][i5]
3. Report [#6][i6]

### Milestone 3: Work on question 2: 'Find mutations in genomic data related to behavioral risk factors for cancer primary site 'bronchus and lung''
1. Data preprocessing [#7][i7]
2. Implementation of CNN [#8][i8]
3. Data evaluation [#9][i9]
4. Report [#10][i10]

### Milestone 4: Summarizing
1. Revise reports [#11][i11]
2. Conclude [#12][i12]
3. Poster [#13][i13]

---

[i1]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/1
[i2]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/2
[i3]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/3
[i4]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/4
[i5]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/5
[i6]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/6
[i7]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/7
[i8]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/8
[i9]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/9
[i10]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/10
[i11]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/11
[i12]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/12
[i13]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/13

<!--
Comments and Hints:
Demo showing cases with pancreatic cancer with and without mutations in the gene KRAS
https://portal.gdc.cancer.gov/analysis?analysisId=demo-comparison&analysisTableTab=result

Inspect:
Survival Analysis
Survival plot 1: with gene mutation 2: without gene mutation
Age at Diagnosis

Evaluation:
- Differentiate race/ethnicity for cancer and BRFSS
- Differentiate gender for cancer and BRFSS
- Differentiate age for cancer and BRFSS
- search for data with specific genes regarding BRFSS
    https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6226269/ MC4R and LEPR
    MC4R (melanocortin 4 receptor): https://portal.gdc.cancer.gov/genes/ENSG00000166603
    https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Melanocortin-4-Rezeptor 'Ferner unterdrückt er das Hungergefühl'
        

-->

Commit message:

project: jupyter notebook for brfss rearranged anaconda envs (files)

project/project-plan.md, after:

# Project Plan

## Title
<!-- Give your project a short title. -->
BRFC - Behavior risk factors & cancer project.

## Main Question

<!-- Think about one main question you want to answer based on the data. -->
How do behavioral risks influence cancer (or even mutations). 

## Description

<!-- Describe your data science project in max. 200 words. Consider writing about why and how you attempt it. -->
Cancer is one of the leading number of deaths, bronchus and lung cancer deaths are now ranked 6th among the leading causes of deaths (https://www.who.int/news-room/fact-sheets/detail/the-top-10-causes-of-death). Also obesity is a world wide health issue and influences diseases. Rising numbers in cancer and obesity are alerting and therefore it is of high interest to reveal any relations of obesity/behavioral risk factors and cancer in order to apply countermeasures.

This project aims to uncover relations of behavioral risk factors and cancer.

## Datasources

<!-- Describe each datasources you plan to use in a section. Use the prefic "DatasourceX" where X is the id of the datasource. -->

### Datasource1 GDC - NCI Genomic Data Commons
License: Data usage agreement: https://gdc.cancer.gov/about-data/data-analysis-policies

Several apis/ways to retrieve data from GDS: https://docs.gdc.cancer.gov/Data/Data_Model/GDC_Data_Model/#data-users
Data Model: https://gdc.cancer.gov/developers/gdc-data-model

#### Datasource1a GraphQL API: GDC - NCI Genomic Data Commons
Cancer and genomic data GraphQL API
* Metadata URL: https://docs.gdc.cancer.gov/API/Users_Guide/GraphQL_Examples/
* Data URL: https://api.gdc.cancer.gov/v0/graphql
* Query: ToBeSpecified with project
* Data Type: json

#### Datasource1b REST API: GDC - NCI Genomic Data Commons
Cancer and genomic data direct download
* Metadata URL: https://docs.gdc.cancer.gov/API/Users_Guide
* Data URL: https://portal.gdc.cancer.gov/exploration?filters=%7B%22op%22%3A%22and%22%2C%22content%22%3A%5B%7B%22op%22%3A%22in%22%2C%22content%22%3A%7B%22field%22%3A%22cases.primary_site%22%2C%22value%22%3A%5B%22bronchus%20and%20lung%22%5D%7D%7D%5D%7D
* Data Type: json

### Datasource2 Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance
License: https://opendefinition.org/licenses/odc-odbl/
#### Datasource2: Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance
Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity - Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System
* Metadata URL: https://catalog.data.gov/harvest/object/721fe106-9250-45d7-9093-1edacb565cd4
* Data URL: https://catalog.data.gov/dataset/nutrition-physical-activity-and-obesity-behavioral-risk-factor-surveillance-system
* Data Type: json/xml/rdf/csv


## Work Packages

<!-- List of work packages ordered sequentially, each pointing to an issue with more details. -->

### Milestone 1: Data inspection, Goal: Data available, conclusion if data is sufficient, side effects of data
1. Download data packages [#1][i1]
2. Inspect data packages [#2][i2]
3. Elaborate on side effects of data [#3][i3]

### Milestone 2: Work on question 1 'Correlation of behavioral risk factors and cancer (primary site 'bronchus and lung')'
1. Data preprocessing [#4][i4]
2. Data evaluation [#5][i5]
3. Report [#6][i6]

### Milestone 3: Work on question 2: 'Find mutations in genomic data related to behavioral risk factors for cancer primary site 'bronchus and lung''
1. Data preprocessing [#7][i7]
2. Implementation of CNN [#8][i8]
3. Data evaluation [#9][i9]
4. Report [#10][i10]

### Milestone 4: Summarizing
1. Revise reports [#11][i11]
2. Conclude [#12][i12]
3. Poster [#13][i13]

---

[i1]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/1
[i2]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/2
[i3]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/3
[i4]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/4
[i5]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/5
[i6]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/6
[i7]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/7
[i8]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/8
[i9]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/9
[i10]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/10
[i11]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/11
[i12]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/12
[i13]: https://github.com/nilapalin/made-template/issues/13

<!--
Comments and Hints:
Demo showing cases with pancreatic cancer with and without mutations in the gene KRAS
https://portal.gdc.cancer.gov/analysis?analysisId=demo-comparison&analysisTableTab=result

Inspect:
Survival Analysis
Survival plot 1: with gene mutation 2: without gene mutation
Age at Diagnosis

Evaluation:
- Differentiate race/ethnicity for cancer and BRFSS
- Differentiate gender for cancer and BRFSS
- Differentiate age for cancer and BRFSS
- search for data with specific genes regarding BRFSS
    https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6226269/ MC4R and LEPR
    MC4R (melanocortin 4 receptor): https://portal.gdc.cancer.gov/genes/ENSG00000166603
    https://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Melanocortin-4-Rezeptor 'Ferner unterdrückt er das Hungergefühl'


Hypothesis:
If we can see changes in the values of obesity in every year, this will be somehow reflected in the cancer numbers (esp. with the MC4R mutations).
1. show changing data in obesity within brfss data of the last 10 or so years
    LocationDesc == National
    Class == Obesity / Weight Status
    Total == Total

    LocationDesc == National
    Class == Obesity / Weight Status
    Gender == Male or Female

    LocationDesc == National
    Class == Obesity / Weight Status
    Age(years) == 25 - 34 or 35 - 44 or 45 - 54 or 55 - 64 or 65 or older

   
2. show data of cancer cases with and without mutations from gdc over the last 10 or so years (MC4R mutations only relevant 2010-2018)    
3. bring 1. and 2. together and show possible correlations
-->
